Hello and welcome back. In this lesson, we are going to do a practical on using Codex to connect to MCP services.
And for this session, we are going to look at how to connect Codex to the x64DBG MCP server.
So let's get started.
The first thing we need to do is create a new folder where we can store our skills.
So head over to the C drive and create a new folder. Let us call it AI skills and inside here
we will store all our MD files. Remember MD stands for markdown files. Next we will now
fire up our x64dbg. So we need to run it as an administrator. So, you right click on this
x32 version and run it as administrator. Then we are going to open a crackme. So let's look for
crackme from the practice crackmes folder. We are going to try a different crackme. Let's choose
anti-debugger. Let's run it first. So this crackme, it will detect whether or not a debugger is
attached to it. If the debugger is not attached then the status will show debugger not detected.
Now let us try to open this with x32dbg.  Now you run it. It says debugger detected.
So, our task is to try to to bypass the debugger detection algorithm.
So we need to find out where in this code the code detects the debugger.
That is the primary purpose. We are not going to try to crack the serial, we just want to try to overcome the debugger.
So in order to do that, we must make sure that the service is running, the MCP service.
So we go to the log tab, and we scroll to the top, and here we can see the server is listening on port 50300.
And we go to command line, open the command line prompt, and type the netstat command, dash tan, and we should see 50300.
Now we need to tell codex regarding this and then remember if we go back to the x64dbg
mcp server by agent smithers, the sse endpoint is this, 127.0.0.1:50300/sse.
So this is the endpoint SSE.
So now remember that we are going to fire up our codex now.
And over here, we will tell codex that we have started a new server, MCP server.
So we say: connect to mcp to x64dbg mcp server which is running on endpoint and we give the
endpoint 0.0.0.0 and the port number is 50300.
And we slash forward sse.
MCP protocol and JSON. So here we select GPT 5.5 the best model available and we
select high. That means it has higher thinking abilities and then we click go.
So now it reports that it will try to handshake against the local SSE endpoint
using protocol using IP 127.0.0.1 so it's running a script a
PowerShell script.  It is running another PowerShell script. Here it says the MCP
initialized handshake succeeded and so it says the discovery worked and
discovered the debugger commands. This is good news and finally reports
successfully connected using the MCP SSE using JSON RPC. Okay so now I'm going to
ask it to list down what API will be used to detect debugger. List down what
are the common Win32 API used for detecting debuggers. Okay, so it lists down a few. We are
going to try the first one. So it's quite a number here. Alright, so these are the common
ones used by malware when they want to avoid being debugged. We are not doing a malware
but the principle is the same if a software has got software protection it also will detect
debuggers and prevent you from reversing from reverse engineering it. Okay so now there's good
news. It has managed to connect and it lists down the most common API: isdebuggerpresent.
So now we can go here to the cpu right click and search for current module,
intermodular calls. That will list down all the windows 32 api that this crack me uses.
Right it is done. Quite a lot so we want to filter isdebuggerpresent. So we go to the search box
here and type in isdebuggerpresent and we can see there are three instances of isdebuggerpresent.
So what we do is we can put breakpoints on all three of them. Select highlight and select all
and then select toggle breakpoint. Now we run and see which one hits. We restart click the restart
and then it will reload the crack me and now we run. It has hit the first instance of isdebuggerpresent.
We continue to run. It has hit it again. Continue to run. It has hit it again. Continue to run.
Click on running so it's always hitting this breakpoint. We go back to the breakpoint tab
and see how many times it's hit. 11 times. Right so this is the one which is the correct
address which we should investigate.
So now we go to that address, we double click to go to that address and here we can see
it.
So we now copy this address, copy this address and we are going to give this address to codex,
to ask codex to disassemble it and analyze and explain to us how it works.
So disassemble the code at address, then we paste the address, put the 0x prefix and
explain what it does and how it works.
So just click go.
So now the codex reports that it will now decode the control flow and call out any API
level behavior it's implementing and now it is disassembling the target address and then thinking.
So it is stumbling over some of the commands but don't worry I'm pretty sure it knows how to
fix it just give it time to figure it out because this is the first time codex is trying to connect
this mcp service. Okay it says it has the main branch structure now now it is trying to resolve
labels and nearby code.
So it successfully detected that at this address,
it is calling the API isDebuggerPresent
and identify it as anti-debug check.
After a while, it reports back that the code
is an anti-debug check built around isDebuggerPresent
and dumps the disassembled code over here.
As you can see, it is similar to what you see in the XDBG.
So what it does, it explains to you.
It calls isDebuggerPresent and saves the return value in EDI.
If isDebugger returns non-zero, it treats the debugger as present.
If it returns zero, it treats the process as not being debugged.
It then writes the result into global byte at last.
One means debugger detected.
Zero means no debugger detected.
It is quite detailed.
And it even tries to decompile it
into pseudocode language, which is very handy.
As you can see, this is the decompiled version of the assembly
code over here.
So it isdebuggerpresent.
We then return the result into a Boolean variable detector.
And then it tests.
And then it jumps accordingly.
So the important behavior is this block
detects a debugger using the Win32 API,
isdebuggerpresent, records the result globally,
and then performs different follow-up handling depending
on whether a debugger is attached.
So over here, it already tells us
that it saves the return value in EDI.
It calls isdebuggerpresent.
If we step over this now, we will
see that it saves the value in eax first,
and then it moves eax to EDI.
We can ask Codex to explain, what does this next line do?
What does this two lines do?
Explain these two lines.
So it explains now, these two lines
are the actual debugger check and result save.
So isdebuggerpresent checks whether the current process is
being debugged, it returns this non-zero result.
And then it says, on 32-bit windows,
the function return values are placed in eax.
So after isdebuggerpresent, returns eax contains the result.
So as you can see from here, it returns 1.
1 means debugger detected.
And then the next line here, move eax to edi.
So it says here that this instruction copies
the result into edi so the program can
preserve and test it later.
So this is how we can bypass the debugger.
We can confirm it.
If eax was 1, in this case, it is 1,
it means that 1 will be saved to EDI.
So if we want to bypass the debugger,
we should modify the value of eax to make it non-1.
So we can do that now.
We can assemble.
We can patch this.
We right-click, and we assemble here.
Click Assemble.
And for eax, we change it to 0.
then here okay we can't because instruction is bigger by three bytes so
we can't do that. What we can do is so now we can we know that eax is saved into
edi so we can ask codex this instruction move edi, eax causes edi to become 1 how.
How will we modify EDI to become, how will we, how will we, how will one change EDI to
become 0?
Let's see what it says.
Okay so it replies that if you want EDI to become 0, there are a few ways to do it.
You can, after the call, eax contains isDebuggerPresent, you can either set eax to 0 before executing
it.
That means you manually go here, double click on this, and change it to 0.
But we don't want that.
We want to patch it.
So it's good that Codex tells us this first option.
And then the other way is the patch option.
So the patch option is where this instruction, you can replace it with xor edi,edi.
So this is also 2 bytes, so it fits perfectly over the original instruction.
So we can try this.
So we right click this, assemble, XOR EDI, EDI.
So instruction is the same size, make sure you click check same size because if it's
bigger than the original 2 bytes here, it will overwrite the next instruction.
So we click ok, and now EDI is going to be 0 after this.
So now we patch it, file patch, and then click patch file, and we rename it with a dash v2
for version 2 at the back, save it, alright.
Now we're going to load version 2 and run, and it says debugger not detected.
So it works.
So you can see, this is how useful codex can be.
It can give you analysis in detail and even tell you how to solve the problem that
you're asking it to solve. Alright so now the next step is very important you're
going to save this skill into a skill file. The skill that you want to save is
how to connect to x64DBG MCP service. So ask it to do this now and give it the
path to the folder we created earlier so we copy this path you want to save the
skill here so we ask you to create a skill file markdown file to save how you
successfully connected to the x64DBG MCP service. Include enough details so
that in future when I ask you to connect to x64dbg again and I give you this .md
file you can refer to it to connect to do the connection. The file should be
model agnostic - meaning agnostic meaning it should work on codex and also claude code.
Save the .md file in this folder and then paste the folder that you copied and then
click go.
So it's going to go ahead and create the skills file and save it in this folder.
So now it reports saying that it will use the skill creator guidance and create a markdown
file inside this folder as requested. As you can see it is successfully saved
here x64dbg mcp connection.md
and then finally it reports back created the skill markdown file here.
It includes the successful mcp or sse connection flow
json rpc handshake language a handshake message,
javascript reference client, observe tools two core examples troubleshooting
notes, everything there great. So let's open it now - we can open it with any text
editor. I will use visual studio code and take a look at what it looks like. All
right so this is the raw markdown. If you want to view it as a markdown you in
visual studio code you press ctrl shift V, ctrl shift V and you will render in
the preview format and you can see now so here it goes.
It's got the description, the key facts, the port number, and very detailed descriptions,
successful handshake sequence, the minimal JSON-RPC message, initialize, list tools,
verify tools, JavaScript reference, and so on.
So it is quite detailed, and so in future, whenever you want to do another job on reverse
engineering using x64 debugger all you need to do is go here and tell codex the location of this
folder and this file. So what you need to do is go here and copy this location or even directly
here right click copy as path and paste inside here like this and then you can tell it refer
to this file for how to connect to x64 debugger mcp service and then you go and read this file
and connect to x64 debugger based on the information there. So not put the double quotes
you can just type that is refer to this skill file then you can say now connect to x64 dbg
and you just click go and you should be able to do that. And then after that once it's connected
you can just ask it to do tasks. So it saves you a lot of headache you don't have to wait for it to
rediscover again how to connect. The skill file will save you a lot of time just save the skill
file and then reload it in the next session and it automatically knows how to connect. And you can
repeat this process for Ghidra and for DnSpy or any other tools which you want to use. Okay so.
So before we end this lesson, if you want to, it's a good idea to go and take a snapshot.
Close all these first, close everything, and then take a snapshot, machine, take snapshot,
or you can close everything down and go to the Oracle VirtualBox Manager and take a snapshot
from there.
And one thing you should note that these skills files are very valuable, so before you restore
machine to a previous snapshot make sure you copy this up and save it somewhere safe otherwise you
might lose all the skills. So remember to do that if ever you want to revert back to the earlier snapshot
make sure you save the skills folder somewhere else first then you revert to an earlier snapshot.
So these are the tips that you might be
useful for you. So that's all for this video. Thank you for watching.